In the last lecture, we added this x-axis. I now want to come to the end of the section by showing you
how you can add your own options here for your chart.
You can right now not choose any options here and would be nice if we could take the option whether
we want to show the axis or not
amongst some other default options.
While that's easy to do,
now I'll show you how it works.
We can add our own configuration objects by going to the capabilities.json file again and here,
after this array where we set up the dataViewMappings here,
I'll add a new node, objects because these options we can set up are basically named objects, objects
we can work with in our Typescript code.
So that's objects and here we can now define our own option. Give it any name you like,
I'll name it enableAxis because this what I want to trigger here and that takes again a Javascript
object here in is json
notation, like that. In there,
I have to set up display name, so that node name here was up to you
but in each node name, in each option you create, you have to define a display name, so I'll name this
enable axis,
that is what will show up in our menu thereafter
and thereafter we also need to set up some properties for this option. Here,
again up to you, I'll set up a show property which will be displayed as a toggle, as a switch.
So here I do this by adding a display name which I'll also name enableAxis
but more important, I'll add a type here and that type is also an object where I set bool to true and by
setting bool to true, I'm indicating that this should be a switch because a switch gives you a boolean
value, true or false
and by true, I said this is a boolean,
yes it is,
so now it will display as such a switch.
If we save this and we reload our chart here, you now see all of a sudden we get a couple of options
here but not our own one strangely enough, I'll come back to this
but we've got a couple of default options which are provided by Power BI since they don't require our
help to work.
So here, we can switch some things and make sure, well to do styling like we can style all the visuals.
However as I mentioned, our own option is not showing up here
and the reason for this is that when running our code, when displaying our visual, Power BI is detecting
that we're not able to handle a change in the option, that whenever we switch this switch, we don't
do anything,
we only set it up here,
we don't handle it in our Typescript code.
That is something we'll need to handle next, that
we actually retrieved the settings the user set up.